---
layout: post
title: Continuous Learning! 
snippet: Achieving TFactor 4.o
comments: false
---

Hi there!

>Learning Never Exhausts the mind.”
>-Leonardo da Vinci

<p>
TCS, being the first company of mine, I really want to learn as much as possible and apply the same in my project tasks.

In the early days of joining, I came to know about many great platforms provided by TCS. The one that gains the maximum interest of mine was FrescoPlay. The cross-platform availability of FrescoPlay makes it really easy to use even on the go. Kudos to the team for providing us with such a good platform for learning.

At that time, I was studying the courses from various different categories that fascinated me the most. But when I got tagged in my current project, I came to know that a minimum T-Factor score of 2 is required. I consulted my seniors and colleagues on how to achieve this. This was the time when I actually realized the concept of ‘Learning in-depth’ associated with FrescoPlay and this most distinguishing feature of this platform’
– The T-Factor.

Quoting the verse from FrescoPlay, “T-Factor is a measure of Digital skills of TCS associates that quantify how close the profile is, to an ideal ‘T-shaped Digital Ninja’”

So, I started targeting the courses of the categories that relate to my current role the most. Those are “Data Science” and “Modern Data Platform”. Soon after that, I reached my first Milestone Challenge at T-Factor 1.99. I could not clear it in my first attempt. But that attempt gave me an understanding of what sort of questions can be expected in these challenges. Finally, I cleared the first milestone in Dec’19. But the T-Factor remained 1.99

After my colleagues completed their 1st milestone, their T-Factor score jumped significantly. Thus, I learned about another distinguishing feature of this platform. On reaching the milestone, if we continue to complete more courses, the % increase in T-Factor after clearing the milestone keeps on cumulating.

I continued my journey of learning from 1.99 to 2.99. It was rather a smooth ride in terms of the jump in T-Factor after completing the courses of the same categories. I cleared my 2nd milestone challenge at T-Factor 2.99 in Aprill’20.

It's only after the 2nd milestone, I understood what is the real significance of “T” in T-Factor. The guidance of seniors helped me realize:
“It’s not about the depth knowledge in one or two categories, but after this level, the knowledge of multiple categories will help me become a true T-Shaped Digital Ninja”

Then I targeted the courses of other categories, mainly, “Cloud Computing” and “DevOps”. It takes a lot of effort at this stage as the T-factor increases gradually at this stage.

But that’s the real test of endurance, perseverance, and the will to learn more. Thanks to all my seniors and colleagues who have kept me motivated and guided through various challenges at times.

I finally reached 3.99. I was really nervous about the challenges because the questions could be from a wide variety of categories. After motivations from my team leads and a week of preparation, I was ready to attempt my 3rd Milestone Challenge at T-Factor 3.99.

I consider myself lucky that I could complete the entire challenge within the allowed time.
I submitted the challenge and after The long wait of 5 minutes, the results were there…
And That’s how I achieved my 3rd milestone of T-Factor 3.99.

Hope this will inspire others!
</p>

Lets catch-up in the next post.

Till then, bbye O/